As I mentioned a moment ago, actuators are
the devices that actually move the robot joints.
And there are a number of different types
of actuators in common use for robotics. A
good definition of an actuator is it is a
device that causes motion and it can cause
linear motion or rotary motion. On the top
here, we have a linear actuator and the shaft
of that linear actuator moves backwards and
forwards along a line. The more common form
of electric motor has a rotary output. The
output of an actuator could be considered
as either a speed or a force. That is, for
a particular input, the motor might adopt
a particular speed or it might exert a particular
force or torque in the rotational case.
There are many different types of actuators
and they vary in the types of underlying physics
that’s used to cause the motion. The most
common types of actuators are hydraulic which
use compressed oil to cause the motion, pneumatic
which use compressed air to cause the motion,
and electric which use electric current and
magnets to cause the motion.
Hydraulic actuators are very common in heavy
machineries such as used in construction and
in the mining industry. They are very compact
devices that are capable of generating very
high forces and that’s important when I
want to pull a bucket of an excavator through
the ground or I want to lift up many, many
tons of earth and stones.
The hydraulic actuators are the cylindrical
devices you see in this image. Up close, you
can see a large cylinder with some hoses going
to it and a shiny rod sticking out one end
that moves backwards and forwards. A hydraulic
actuator is really a very simple device. The
cylindrical body has got two ports where compressed
oil enters and leaves and then, there is the
moving part, the rod which moves backwards
and forwards and exerts a force on the machine
or on the environment.
A simple schematic of a hydraulic actuator
looks something like this. Down the bottom,
we have the cylinder itself. Inside that,
there is a piston which is attached to the
rod which is the piece that does the work.
There is a valve assembly and high-pressure
oil from the pump enters the valve and oil
leaves the valve and returns to the pump.
The hydraulic actuator converts oil pressure
to a linear force. If I apply a positive signal
to the valve and oil flows as shown by the
black arrows, and the piston moves to the
right. Oil enters the left port of the cylinder
and it exits from the right hand port of the
cylinder.
If the area of the piston is A and if the
pressure of the oil is P, then the force of
the piston is P x A. And because the oil pressure
is so high, the force that can be exerted
by a hydraulic actuator is very, very large.
If I apply negative signal to the valve, then
the oil flows in the opposite direction and
the piston moves to the left. If I apply a
zero signal to the valve, then all the ports
are blocked and this means that no oil can
enter or leave the hydraulic cylinder. Because
the oil is virtually incompressible, this
means that the piston is effectively locked
and it can’t move left or right.
Although the linear hydraulic actuator is
by far the most common, there are also rotary
hydraulic motors such are shown here in the
motor which is driving this caterpillar track.
You can think of it essentially as an oil-driven
turbine or paddle wheel.
The hydraulic actuators are very compact and
can exert a lot of force. But in order to
use a hydraulic actuator, you need a lot of
other kit. First of all, you need valves to
control the direction of oil flow. You need
a compressor to supply the high-pressure oil
and for large systems, you need a chiller
to cool the oil after it’s been compressed.
Often you will have an accumulator that holds
high-pressure oil and there is always an awful
lot of hoses. Way back in 1984, I was involved
in developing this flexible manufacturing
cell and it contained two robots in addition
to a lot of other equipment. There is the
electric Puma 560 robot that we’ve met
a number of times before in this course and
in the foreground is this very large hydraulically-powered
Cincinnati Milacron T3 robot.
Back in the day, hydraulics was the only technology
that could be used to create a robot that
was able to lift very large payloads. Since
then, there has been massive improvements
in electric motor technology and there are
virtually no hydraulically-powered manufacturing
robots in existence today.
Pneumatic actuators have a lot of similarity
to hydraulic actuators. And here we see a
linear pneumatic actuator. Instead of compressed
oil, the pneumatic system uses compressed
air. Just like the hydraulic system, you need
a lot of other kit. You need to have valves,
you need to have compressors, you need to
have accumulators and of course, you need
to have an awful lot of hoses. As an alternative
to the linear pneumatic actuator, it’s possible
to create an artificial muscle. These devices
directly convert air pressure to a linear
force. There’s no piston involved.
And here we can see a large number of artificial
muscles connected by tendons to the fingers
on this robotic hand.
The artificial muscle contains a flexible
chamber or bag. As air is pumped into the
chamber, the chamber gets wider and it also
gets shorter. And we can see that the overall
length of the muscle has reduced as it is
inflated. One characteristic of these artificial
muscles just like our own muscles is that
they can only pull, they can’t push. In
order to make an effective actuation system,
we use them in what we called antagonistic
pairs. You can see that illustrated here.
As I pressurize one muscle, it gets shorter
and the wheel at the top rotates to the right.
As I depressurize that muscle and pressurize
the other muscle, it gets shorter and the
wheel at the top rotates towards the left.
These artificial muscles have to be used in
pairs.